Why I'm discussing all of this?
It's to explain how the TensorFlow works.
So with all of that,
a TensorFlow is trying to optimize
the utilization of the hardware.
So TensorFlow,
can actually combine T and F together.
And actually even Keras, but
Keras is the higher level API.
So Keras is behind the scenes
actually translating or
can use TensorFlow directly, right?
And TensorFlow, mistakenly,
some people think that
TensorFlow is written in Python.
It's not actually true.
TensorFlow is written in C and
C++, and using Python,
if only I can spell [LAUGH]
using Python to simply
grab the description of the model, right?
So a user is describing models in Python.
But then this description is actually
kinda transformed and using C and C++,
Source code for implementation
of particular reverberations.
And now I need to also tell you about
computational graph, comp graph.
What TensorFlow version
1 was using by default,
it was building computational
graph as the default behavior.
What is computational graph?
It's basically all the code
you create in Python.
It will be rebuilt as part
of the computational graphs,
with notes being your operations and links
between those graphs ease the operation.
So for instance, if I'm in Python,
just writing a + b, or
actually in TensorFlow,
it will be tf.constant(a)
+ tf.constant(b).
It will create simply node a,
node b, right?
That's our constants.
And it will be additional node
the operation of addition.
And the link between those
will be your dependencies.
And the thing is why TensorFlow was doing
that and actually still can do that,
because it allows you to optimize for
a lot of things.
First of all, when you have all of
those operations, for instance,
if I want to multiply this by c now,
right, I can just put this operation.
And then let's say add additional value v,
I don't know.
Basically, I can figure out what
operations I can do in parallel.
Also, how much memory do I need,
right, so for all of those constants.
And right now it just simply found one
variables, but it might be tensors here.
I might actually want
to allocate megabytes,
if not terabytes of RAM,
right, for my tensor.
And TensorFlow,
when building this computational graph,
it can optimize for those operations.
Because one of the slowest
operation is the memory allocation.
And when you need to allocate a lot,
you do it through the operating system,
it will take a lot of time.
And what TensorFlow can do,
it can just allocate one buffer in
the memory and it keep track of it and
just put, for instance,
your tensor v in some parts, right?
And when we're done with v,
when we don't need it,
you can just simply overwrite
the space with some other tensors.
But at the same time,
there will be no additional allocations.
We're just using this buffer,
the one TensorFlow is keeping track of.
And also with all those operations,
as I said, TensorFlow can look for
the parallelism optimizations.
So it can figure out if, for instance,
we're doing some operations
which are not independent.
So for instance,
I can have additional graph here.
Then we can probably just run
this part of the graph on core 0.
And this part of the graph can
be executed on core 1, right?
Or if we're talking about GPUs, then
we probably can just use different
cores for those operations as well.
Or even if we are talking about
heterogeneous programming,
we can execute part of the graph on a GPU.
And then transition the data when the most
kinda, let's say compute intensive
parts were calculated,
we can transition the result back to CPU.
So that's what TensorFlow
was doing behind the scenes.
And for a lot of those
compute intensive operations,
it's actually using pre-built libraries.
So remember,
I said that we have this linking part.
And TensorFlow are relying on CuDNN.
So Cuda was originally, I can probably
even call it programming language.
Although it is heavily based on C,
C++, but Cuda was specifically
designed to program GPUs, right,
NVIDIA GPUs, to be specific.
And now NVIDIA also created CuDNN,
for instance.
That's the heavily optimized library for
parallelism and
utilization of the GPUs with basic
building blocks of deep neural networks.
So it's doing, it's optimizing.
Hopefully I will demonstrate to you later,
but a lot of this neural network
operations, they're relying on general
matrix-matrix multiplication or
matrix-vector multiplication.
So remember a lot of
those connections between
the neurons with different weights.
So you can have just data as one vector.
And weights in each layer
can be your matrix with v11,
v12, and so on, so forth, right?
And what you can do, you can just simply
take the data and multiply by the matrix.
Anyway, there are a lot of details
behind this I don't wanna go into.
But basically your general
matrix-matrix multiplication,
GMM [LAUGH] or
matrix-vector multiplication,
that's what's used as
the implementation for
your deep neural networks training and
inference.
And CuDNN is providing this
functionality on the GPU side.
For CPUs, we have MKL, that's the math
kernel library created by Intel.
But there is backend abstraction which
using actually Intel MKL called NumPy.
So NumPy, numeric Python package,
is what is TensorFlow is using.
And if you want to do something simple,
I would recommend to get
familiar with NumPy.
Because a lot of mathematical operations,
NumPy is the way kinda to
link your Python and C.
So a lot of math-intensive operations can
be implemented quite effectively in C.
There is no overhead of object-oriented
programming and classes on all of that.
So in C,
you can do a lot of things pretty fast.
And NumPy allows you to draw
this from the kinda Python
representation of the data and
use NumPy to just
almost get to the bare metal
to manipulate your data.
And TensorFlow is using
NumPy quite a bit a lot.
Okay, so let me kinda finalize everything.
I said that, yes, TensorFlow is
creating computational graph,
which simply allows us to
optimize a lot of things.
So it will try to use libraries depending
on what architecture you have available.
If you have GPUs,
then a CuDNN will be linked.
Or MKL, NumPy,
we'll be using those as well.
And basically TensorFlow, what it's doing,
it's simply looking at your Python
description of the model, right?
And then figuring out what
C routines it should use,
optimize C routines to get the best
speed out of the hardware you have.
So [LAUGH] the reason why I
was describing it is to tell
you the original purpose of TensorFlow,
why it was created, right?
And what is happening right
now with TensorFlow 2.0,
they actually switching
their default behavior.
Previously, creating the computational
graph was the default behavior.
Right now,
the default behavior is eager execution.
Eager execution is different.
It means that we will have
access to all of our variables.
And all operations will be executed,
not in a lazy form,
but right when we have it
typed as a Python command.
It makes debugging your Python
code significantly easier, right?
And that was a really
big benefit of PyTorch.
PyTorch had eager execution from
the beginning, and that's why it was so
convenient for searchers to play
around with their new ideas, right?
Because they could have just print
out what's currently happening with
the tensor, right?
Or what's gonna happen if I normalize or
do some sort of transformation on my code,
on my tensor, right?
So TensorFlow team realized that
because of this complexity,
because of computational graph,
you cannot see
the values until the computational
graph is created.
And there is also,
you need to create session, right,
in which this computational
graph will be executed.
And then you can debug it, or
at least look at the values.
So that's why they decided, okay,
we can keep the computational graph for
the optimization, but the default behavior
will be just using eager execution and
execute your Python code.
But when you're satisfied with your code,
you can just use special wrappers,
Python decorators, right, or
TensorFlow function to just say,
okay, I'm done with debugging my code.
I'm done with eager execution.
Switch to computational graph.
And then TensorFlow will just
look at your Python code,
recreate the computational graph.
We'll figure out the ways how parts
of this graph can be optimized,
right, which C codes we can use.
So we'll then rely heavily on CuDNN and
MKL, NumPy, right?
And everything will be
executed significantly faster.
So don't be surprised
if your eager executed
code on TensorFlow 2.0 is somewhat slow,
especially if you tried to execute
with the TensorFlow 1, right?
It's just because TensorFlow
1 already using all of those
optimizations from the beginning.
And TensorFlow 2.0 is allowing
you the development setup first,
and then only transition
to the computational graph.